Create unparsed logs guide (#10213)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/guide/detect-unparsed-logs.md

---
title: Monitor and query for unparsed logs
kind: guide

> aliases:
>   - /logs/guide/detect-unparsed-logs/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You need aliases only if there's a 404 you're trying to avoid by redirecting a deleted page to this page. I think we can delete these lines in this file

further_reading:
  - link: /logs/explorer/
    tag: Documentation
    text: "See how to explore your logs"
  - link: /logs/faq/log-parsing-best-practice
    tag: Documentation
    text: "Log Parsing - Best Practices"
beta: true
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> The Unparsed logs flagging feature is currently in private beta. For more information, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unparsed logs flagging feature is currently in private beta. For more information, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.
```

</div>

## Overview
Parsed logs are central to be able to use Datadog Log Management to its full capacity, for queries, monitors, aggregations or automatic enrichments such as sensitive data scanner.
When you are scaling your volume of logs it can be challenging to identify and fix logs patterns that are not parsed by your pipelines.

> This guide walks you through three steps to be able to identify and control the volume of unparsed logs in your organization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify and control the volume of unparsed logs in your organization:
```

> 1. [Detect an unparsed log](#detect-an-unparsed-log)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Detect unparsed logs](#detect-unparsed-logs)
```

2. [Query for unparsed logs](#query-for-unparsed-logs)
3. [Create a metric to track for unparsed logs](#create-a-metric-to-track-fro-unparsed-logs)
4. [Monitor the volume of unparsed logs](#monitor-the-volume-of-unparsed-logs)

> ## Detect an unparsed log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detect unparsed logs
```

> In order to detect if a specific log has been parsed by your pipelines, access the log and check for the Event Attributes panel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine if a specific log has been parsed by your pipelines, open the log and check the Event Attributes panel. If the log is unparsed, instead of showing attributes extracted from your log, the panel shows a message saying that no attributes were extracted:
```

{{< img src="logs/guide/unparsed-logs/unparsed-log.jpg" alt="Unparsed log details"  style="width:90%;">}}

> Unparsed logs will contain a blue message instead of attributes extracted from your log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Moved this description above the screen shot that shows it

> This issue can be solved in multiple ways such as creating [custom pipelines][1] or using a [log integration][2] as the source of the log to take advantage of the automatic pipeline setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can start parsing and unparsed log by creating [custom pipelines][1] or using a [log integration][2] as the source of the log to take advantage of the automatic pipeline setup.
```

## Query for unparsed logs

> Checking logs manually to ensure they are parsed is not a viable way of tracking for the unparsed logs at scale.
> 
> You can query in bulk for unparsed logs by using the filter `datadog.pipelines:false` in the [log explorer][3]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have many logs, making one-by-one checking unviable, you can instead query for unparsed logs by using the filter `datadog.pipelines:false` in the [Log Explorer][3]:
```

{{< img src="logs/guide/unparsed-logs/datadog-pipeline-false-log-explorer.jpg" alt="Query unparsed logs"  style="width:90%;">}}

> This filter will return all indexed logs without custom attributes after the pipeline processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This filter returns all indexed logs without custom attributes after the pipeline processing.
```

> With [pattern aggregation][4], you have an aggregated view of the common patterns in the unparsed logs which can help kickstart custom pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pattern aggregation][4] shows an aggregated view of the common patterns in the unparsed logs, which can kickstart your creation of custom pipelines.
```

## Create a metric to track for unparsed logs

> With the previous section, you have a way to select the unparsed __indexed__ logs. Althought, as a good practice, you want to ensure that even the logs that you do not index are parsed so that the content of your [archives][6] are structured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Querying for unparsed logs lets you select the unparsed _indexed_ logs. It's also a good practice to ensure that even the logs that you do not index are parsed, so that the content of your [archives][6] are structured.
```

> To do so, create a new [custom metric][5] using the same filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a metric for unparsed logs, create a [custom metric][5] using the `datadog.pipelines:false` query:
```

{{< img src="logs/guide/unparsed-logs/logs-unparsed-metric.jpg" alt="Generate logs.unparsed metric"  style="width:90%;">}}

> As for any log-based metric, you can add dimensions in the `group by` field. For this guide, the dimensions used are `service` and `team` but a good practice is to have this metric with the dimensions that you are using to define the ownership of a log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As for any log-based metric, you can add dimensions in the `group by` field. The example above shows grouping by `service` and `team`. You should group by the dimensions that you are using to define the ownership of a log.
```

## Monitor the volume of unparsed logs

> In order to ensure that the logs parsing in your organization is kept under control, you can apply quota for the unparsed logs volume. This approach is close to what is proposed in with [daily quotas][7] for indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that the logs parsing in your organization is kept under control, apply a quota for the unparsed logs volume. This approach is close to what is proposed with [daily quotas][7] for indexes.
```

> To do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor the volume of unparsed logs:
```

> 1. Create a new [metric monitor][8]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a [metric monitor][8].
```

> 2. Use the previously created `logs.unparsed` metric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use the previously created `logs.unparsed` metric.
```

> 3. Define the quota per `team`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Define the quota per `team`.
```

> 4. Ensure that the [alert conditions][9] fit when you want to be alerted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Ensure that the [alert conditions][9] fit when you want to be alerted.
```

{{< img src="logs/guide/unparsed-logs/monitor-unparsed-logs-team.jpg" alt="Query unparsed logs"  style="width:90%;">}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/processing/
> [2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-log-collection
> [3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/
> [4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/#patterns
> [5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/logs_to_metrics/
> [6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/archives/?tab=awss3
> [7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/indexes#set-daily-quota
> [8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/monitor_types/metric/?tab=threshold#overview
> [9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/monitor_types/metric/?tab=threshold#set-alert-conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /logs/processing/
[2]: /integrations/#cat-log-collection
[3]: /logs/explorer/
[4]: /logs/explorer/#patterns
[5]: /logs/logs_to_metrics/
[6]: /logs/archives/?tab=awss3
[7]: /logs/indexes#set-daily-quota
[8]: /monitors/monitor_types/metric/?tab=threshold#overview
[9]: /monitors/monitor_types/metric/?tab=threshold#set-alert-conditions
```
